A lot of questions are brought up about
how I may be in disagreement
with the gym bros or maybe even the
science-based training guys who maybe
they're backing their way into some gym
bro ideas by trying to test whether the
sort of traditional bodybuilding ideas
actually hold scientific merit or Not
the truth is.
[Music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I am a doctor
of biomedical engineering and I
frequently comment on things sports
physiology,
uh, training advice. Sometimes I will
speak positively about others on
YouTube, on the internet that are
espousing correct things. I don't chase
after people who are saying things wrong
because I don't think that's the
gentlemanly thing to do. I am more
concerned with what is right as opposed
to who is right and so should you. Now,
a lot of questions are brought up about
how I may be in disagreement
with the gym bros or maybe even the
science-based
training guys who maybe they're backing
their way into some gym bro ideas by
trying to test whether the sort of
traditional bodybuilding ideas actually
hold scientific merit or not. The truth
is I actually don't disagree with really
anybody from a broad perspective. I
think there's a there's a context that's
different. So I'm coming from a place
where I'm looking at the vast majority
of people who attempted to be lifters
and they did not succeed for genetic
reasons. Now the genetic reasons are not
hormonal as many people think they are.
They are more biomechanical and most
specifically involve where your tendon
insertions are all over the body. So
certain people have advantageous tendon
layouts. They do well when they lift
weights. This is a very small amount of
the population. And and for example, I
was speaking to Dr. Milo Wolf the other
day who a lot of people think he and I
disagree. We actually don't disagree on
hardly anything, but he's coming at it
from a different perspective. He sells
training and programming that teaches
people how to go to a standard gym and
lift standard weights and get the
absolute maximum out of it. Whereas I am
looking at people who tried that already
and it didn't work for them. So variable
resistance is the biggest difference
between his answer and my answer. He's
not against variable resistance. It's
just basically impossible to find
variable resistance outside of a very
serious powerlifting gym or X3, the
product that I designed. But I don't
want to be like biased and just talk
about my product. Like I'd rather just
talk about how there's a just a
difference, a contextual difference
between what I'm talking about and what
these other guys are talking about. And
I think their advice for those who lift
weights and grow muscle fairly easily,
they're giving great advice in that
context. In the context that I am
advising people, I believe I'm giving
great advice. Somebody may say I'm not,
but I can demonstrate scientifically
that I am. Even wrote a whole ass book
about it. It's called Weightlifting is a
Waste of Time. It's a Wall Street
Journal bestseller. I highly recommend
you checking it out or just subscribe to
the channel so you can see more videos
like this. And ultimately, you will get
all of that programming, messaging, and
knowledge so that you can do far better.
And I think that's that's really the
message. It's like if you're if you pick
up weights and you grow, if it's just
crystal clear when you walk down the
street that you lift and everybody
knows, it looks like you're on a good
path, like you might you might not need
to look into variable resistance. I
believe you'll do better because even
the genetic outliers I work with, like
NFL players, and you can see them on on
the website, they're doing better. But
also, they're at a higher level of
development than the majority of people.
So, I would qualify that like the the
higher the closer you are to your
genetic potential, the more difficult it
is to recruit enough muscle, take enough
tissue to fatigue so that you can
stimulate growth. So variable resistance
has a great application there as well.
So just keep in mind I'm not really
arguing with anybody. It's just a
different context for the conversation.
If this video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.